hello whiskey lovers and welcome to
another one of marks whiskey ramblings
as you can see we're still on location
in beautiful Austria we are in the tirol
area where I was enjoying a wee bit of a
ski holiday with my family and today I'm
going on a brisk Ewok to enjoy tell him
what you want to join me
now telomere dues health ditch can be
traced back all the way to 1829 as it
says here on the gap the distillery was
founded in Tullamore in County Offaly in
central island it was founded by michael
maloy but when he died the distillery
was inherited by bernhard daly who was
something of a sportsman so he was more
into polo and swimming than running a
distillery so he brought on board Daniel
Edmund Williams now Daniel egmond
Williams became the general manager in
1887 and he was quite via the influence
on the distillery the expansion the
modernization and his initials Daniel
Edmund Williams de w that was the
inspiration for the name of this Irish
blend Tullamore Dew now they have a
slogan that says give every man his due
and that slogan is still in use today
now Irish whiskey distilleries had a
tough time let's not forget there was
World War one then there was prohibition
and then also the trade war with England
came and went and then there was World
War two all those historical events were
in a fast for the Irish distillery
companies so in in 1959 tell him adieu
after a hundred and thirty years of
operation had to close down and the
brand was sold to powers between
nineteen sixty six to nineteen
seventy-two the remaining Irish
distilleries consolidated in what is
known as the Irish distillery gloop only
two distilleries were left now tell him
adieu the production of it was
outsourced to the Milton distillery in
County Cork in the south of Ireland and
until today that is produced at that
distillery
but luckily it's not all bad news about
the Irish whiskey no Tullamore Dew will
soon be coming back home not only has
the telomod you held each centre been
renovated then reopened for visitors but
the brand has been bought by William
grants & Sons now that name may ring a
bell because they own this little brand
known as lamb finish I'm joking of
course it's the biggest single malt in
the world so that means they have high
aspirations for this Irish whiskey they
have reopened the visitor center like I
said but also they have just received a
confirmation and approval to build a
whole new distillery in tullamore not at
the exact location as the previous
service tillery but on the outskirts of
tullamore they are spending 35 million
pounds in building a new distillery so
tell more will be coming home soon now
let's find a quiet corner for a wee bit
of a tasting hey
oh by the way a tiny tidbit of cultural
knowledge did you know that telomere is
very popular in France would you like to
know why because they pronounce it to
Lamu awesome on you feat because it
means it's all about the love oh man
your feet all right then time for a wee
bit of a tasting ah so now the tullamore
dew range consists of the telomod you
original which is a blend but there's
also the telomod you black 43 which is
matured for seven years in all our oaths
of sherry casks and obviously a bubble
that forty-three percent while the
original is at 40 then there's also the
Hollywood use single malt which
basically is a ten year old but they
also have the 10 year old Special
Reserve which is basically a mix of
Spanish oak and American oak then
finally there's also the 12 year old
Special Reserve what we are trying the
original the packaging was modernized in
2012 so this is the new look of the
Tullamore Dew and it says here on the
label tullamore dew is the original
blended Irish whiskey and embracing of
all three types of Irish whiskey golden
grain pop still and malt let's see if it
can please the senses while its a bright
golden as you can see it clings to the
glass which is usually a good sign
oh this is very light its a mix of lemon
with some soft spices loads of a Miller
but it is rather light well it is triple
distilled after all it's not very
demanding but it is quite pleasing the
ballot
slightly oily undemanding harmless let
me put it that way it's very soft and
it's basically a mix of vanilla and
lemon zest nothing fancy but not bad at
all on the finish it's very short and
sweet well this is an ideal ideal a
protein style whiskey and don't let this
fool you it's okay to use this as a
mixer well maybe not with Cola but this
is definitely worth trying to create a
hot toddy pour some in your tea spicing
up a little it's not this does not
pretend to be more the Talmud you
original is a fine blamed Irish whiskey
an aperitif style whiskey and thats all
it has to be and that's all for this
whisky rambling hope to see you again
real soon and one of marks whisker
ramblings until then made them all be
with you bye bye